This zip file contains three R script files (modules) as follows.
1. Calibration_BlockV1.R uses the mirt package in R to calibrate the sample data (see below).  The item parameter estimates and IRT scores (thetas) are save and serve as inputs to the next module.  A field (variables) denoting the IRT calibration model per item must be added to the item parameter file.   
2. ResidualComputations_MixedFormat.R Reads in the scored data, IRT proficiency scores (thetas) and examinee group codes, and item parameter estimates for one or more IRT models of choice (Rasch/1PL, 2PL, 3PL, partial-credit, generalized partial credit, or graded response models are supported).  The included item subsets and examinee groups are specified in this R script file.  The R code computes the item subset residuals for each examinee. Those outputs serve as inputs to the next module.
3.  Fit_Statistics_and_Plots.R carries out the residual analyses and generates statistical summaries and plots for each item subset. Outputs are saved to specified files.
4.  FormsA-C_Groups1-3_MixedFormatNI50_Data.csv is the scored item response file containing data for N=6000 examinees, equally divided into 3 groups (A=1, B=2, C=3, 2000 per group). There are 50 items: CR01-C10 are polytomous items; MC01-MC40 are selected-response items (dichotomously scored responses). The mapping of items to subsets are as follows: subset1 = {CR01-CR05, MC01-MC10}; subset2 = {CR06-CR10, MC11-MC20}; and subset3 {MC21-MC40}
5.  Output set #1:  Files prefixed "Sample_Data..." contain the item parameters and theta estimates generated by the mirt package.  Sample_Data6kby50 _itemParam_wModel.csv has the IRT model variable added.
6.  Sample_IRT_ItemSubset_Residuals.csv contains the computed item subset residuals for all 6000 examinees.
7.  Output set #2: Files prefixed "SampleOutputs_Residual..." are the outputs from the residual analyses.  File extensions with ".PNG" files are graphics; ".TXT" extensions are text files containing various statistic summaries
   
